upd (#4)
DevExpress-Examples/how-to-disable-rows-in-gridcontrol-based-on-their-values-e3594: Readme.md

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open_in_DevExpress_Support_Center-FF7200?style=flat-square&logo=DevExpress&logoColor=white)](https://supportcenter.devexpress.com/ticket/details/E3594)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/📖_How_to_use_DevExpress_Examples-e9f6fc?style=flat-square)](https://docs.devexpress.com/GeneralInformation/403183)
<!-- default badges end -->

# WPF Data Grid - Disable Rows Based on Their Values

To disable a row, use any of the following ways:

> 1. In **v20.2** and newer, use [BaseColumn.IsReadOnlyBinding](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/DevExpress.Xpf.Grid.BaseColumn.IsReadOnlyBinding) or [BaseColumn.IsEnabledBinding](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/DevExpress.Xpf.Grid.BaseColumn.IsEnabledBinding) as shown in this example: [Read-Only and Enabled State Binding](https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/wpf-grid-read-only-and-enabled-binding).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (**v20.2** and newer) Use [BaseColumn.IsReadOnlyBinding](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/DevExpress.Xpf.Grid.BaseColumn.IsReadOnlyBinding) or [BaseColumn.IsEnabledBinding](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/DevExpress.Xpf.Grid.BaseColumn.IsEnabledBinding) as shown in this example: [Read-Only and Enabled State Binding](https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/wpf-grid-read-only-and-enabled-binding).
```

Reviewer: This should not be a numbered list because these are not steps

2. Handle the [ShowingEditor](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/DevExpress.Xpf.Grid.GridViewBase.ShowingEditor) event and set the [e.Cancel](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/DevExpress.Xpf.Grid.ShowingEditorEventArgsBase.Cancel) property to **True** in the event handler.
3. Use the [CellTemplate](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/DevExpress.Xpf.Grid.DataViewBase.CellTemplate) property to bind the editor's [IsReadOnly](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/DevExpress.Xpf.Editors.BaseEdit.IsReadOnly) property to a data source field.

> This example demonstrates the difference between the techniques 2 and 3. In the left GridControl, users cannot open editors of the disabled cells. In the right GridControl, users can open read-only cell editors only to copy their values to the clipboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates the difference between the last two options. In the left GridControl, users cannot open editors of the disabled cells. In the right GridControl, users can open read-only cell editors to copy their values to the clipboard only.
```
